Recently, a major department store chain in Canada called Zellers closed all of its stores. I say good riddance. 

Zellers stores were basically good at nothing. They seldom had the lowest prices, compared to other discount stores like Wal-Mart or dollar stores. The quality of store brand good such as clothing and furniture ranged from average to poor. Staff were hard to find, and usually fairly inept. I've heard that working for Zellers meanth poor wages and poor management, creating a low quality work environment. Because of this, stores were fairly messy and disorganized. Selection of some goods wasn't impressive. Overall, not good at anything.

Zellers did have the advantage of ubiquity; almost any medium- to large-sized community in the country had one nearby. This advantage started to dwindle with the rise of Wal-Mart in Canada, and the rise of "super" grocery stores like Sobey's and Loblaws that had a large variety of general merchandise and extended hours. Zellers, which rarely stayed open later than 9 PM and almost no fresh grocery department couldn't compete in these areas. A chain with scores of locations now no longer exists. 
 
But Zellers had one "advantage" that was played up heavily throughout was that they were "Proudly Canadian". This was their sole trump card it seemed. It didn't help. 
It really grinds my gears to think that strictly because a company is Canadian (owned and/or operated, I guess) Canadians should support it. Even if this is the only actual value the company provides. Even if the company sucks. 

I say no to this idea. Consumers should support good businesses, and good businesses should strive to produce quality goods and services.        

This thought ran through my head with the news that *BlackBerry is cutting 4,500 jobs* and that things look bleak for the Waterloo company. Already there's been respones that Canadians should support their "local" tech industry and support Blackberry. Although I don't have any problems with BlackBerry myself, I see such calls as totally misguided. I call this the Zellers effect.

Really, in the past few years BlackBerry hasn't excelled at much. As one of the first companies to make *mobile email a reality*, they rested a bit on their laurels after the early 2000s. Their founding CEOs began focusing on *side* *projects* more than the company itself. This lack of innovation caused Apple and Google to surge ahead in the mobile market place. The company focused on the *consumer market and branding* more than actual products. Related to this was a lack of strategic  competition for hiring strong tech talent. In the 1990s, RIM had their pick of talent from excellent *surrounding* *universities*, but soon other companies started courting these graduates. While other companies wined and dined graduates, flying them to the US for interviews and providing bonuses, RIM simply played up the "local company" card. 

In more recent years, BlackBerry has produced some good products but they just fall short. The Playbook has been widely panned due to lack of email and later for *not supporting the new BB10 OS as initially promised*. BB10 was also supposed to be interoperable with Android, but that's also come up short. As a platform for new apps, *BB10 has been flat*. Even the name change from RIM to BlackBerry could be seen as a desperate attempt to consolidate whatever brand appeal they have.

BlackBerry is struggling. I expect it to start marketing the fact it's Proudly Canadian soon, and to support the Canadian tech industry. 

As someone who is currently working for a fully Canadian software company that's been around for 25 years with market reach in North America, Europe, Austrailia and parts of Africa, seeing both Toronto's and Kitchener-Waterloo's thriving start-up and tech communities, I just can't support this.

Yes, BlackBerry struggling could be painful for Canadian tech, but there's enough other opportunity to go around. Let's let be what will be.    
