JoshuaGrant
51 Mount Dennis Dr – Toronto, Ontario M6M 5H5
Mobile: (647) 240-0961  Home: (647) 341-0926  Twitter: @joshin4colours
Email: joshua.m.grant@gmail.com

Education
 2007-2009 MSc - Applied Mathematics, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario.
 Research area: Mathematical Biology
 2003-2007 BSc - Mathematics, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.
 Dean’s Honour List, 2003-2007

Experience
-April 30, 2013 Webinar Presenter, Automated Test Design: Single Use vs Reusable Tests, Online.
 As part of a periodic webinar series on aspects of software testing presented by SmartBear, I wrote
 and presented a webinar on designing automated tests. This webinar was an interactive discussion
 with questions coming from participants. A summary blog post of this webinar can be found at
 blog.smartbear.com/testing/test-design-qa-with-joshin4colours.
- October 2010–Present
 Test Developer, CaseWare International, Toronto, Ontario.
 I am an automated tester for the CaseWare Time product. I write and maintained automated
regression and acceptance tests, emphasizing maintainability in my test code. Currently, I write Java-based Selenium tests for Time on the Go, one of CaseWare’s web products. I am currently exploring ways to make functional and user acceptance tests faster and more effective.
- August 2009–August 2010
 Research Associate, Cerebral Diagnostics Canada, Inc, Toronto, Ontario.
 I was a scientific and technical researcher working for this small biotechnology star-up. We focused on several projects, including developing in-house software for research in EEG (Electroencephalography) and conducting EEG-based studies in pain research.
- 2007–2009 Teaching Assistant, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario.
 I lead tutorials and drop-in help sessions for students, graded tests and assignments and held regular office hours for additional student help.
- Summer 2006 Research Assistant, Department of Mathematics, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.
 I designed and developed a database of corporate ownership based on SEC filings using Perl and CGI.
- 2005–2006 Teaching Assistant, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.
 I assisted students in a lab-based physics for education students course. Mainly, my goal was help them understand the physical concepts and gain an appreciation for physics.
 
What I’m Looking For:
 Development opportunities involving coding and automation techniques
 Opportunities to undertake test work at all levels of development, from unit testing to large-
 scale automation
 Organizations that appreciate software quality
 Possible challenges with quantitative or mathematical focus
 Roles to encourage testers and developers working together
 Any role that allows me to improve and expand my programming skills and/or my testing skills
 
Tools I’ve Used
 Languages - Java, 4Test (SilkTest language), Python
 Development Tools - Eclipse, Git VCS including Git Extensions, Visual Studio, Emacs
 Atlassian Tools - Stash, BitBucket, JIRA and Confluence (sometimes in combination)
 Continuous Integration with Jenkins/Hudson
 Test Tools - Page Object Design Patterns, SilkTest (Classic and Open agents), Selenium WebDriver in both Java and Python bindings, pytest, TestNG
 
Other Things of Interest
- simplythetest.tumblr.com - My blog on testing and related ideas, updated semi-regularly
- https://bitbucket.org/joshin4colours/gaia-ui-automation-tutorials - My first implementation of
 the Gaia UI test tutorials for FirefoxOS 
- bitbucket.org/joshin4colours/diehard-tests - A side project where I try to implement the DIEHARD test suite in Python
- http://programmers.stackexchange.com/users/36853/joshin4colours - My Programmers.StackExchange profile
 
Interests
 Linux Making the most out of my operating system. If only more things were text-based.
 Cooking It’s really just the love of food. My favourite dishes I’ve prepared include salt-block seared
 tuna and pulled pork.
 Dining Making food is fun, but you can’t beat a good restaurant experience.

